<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	template="/WEB-INF/templates/default.xhtml">

	<ui:param name="title" value="Subnet Calculator — CIDR, Netmask, Broadcast, Hosts" />
	<ui:param name="description" value="Free online IPv4 subnet calculator. Enter a CIDR (e.g. 192.168.1.0/24) and get network, broadcast, first and last usable host, netmask, wildcard, host count and binary representation." />
	<ui:param name="keywords" value="subnet calculator, cidr calculator, netmask, ipv4 subnet, wildcard mask" />
	<ui:define name="corpo">
	<div id="wrapper">
		<div class="content animate-panel">

			<div class="row">
				<div class="col-md-offset-1 col-lg-7">
					<div class="hpanel">
						<div class="panel-heading">
							<div class="row">
								<h1 class="font-extra-bold no-margins text-success text-center">Subnet Calculator</h1>
							</div>
						</div>
						<div class="panel-body">
							<div class="row">
								<div class="form-group col-lg-8">
									<label>CIDR (e.g. 192.168.1.0/24)</label>
									<br />
									<input id="id-input-cidr" class="form-control" value="192.168.1.0/24" />
								</div>
								<div class="form-group col-lg-3">
									<button id="id-button-subnet" class="btn btn-success btn-lg" style="margin-top: 10px" type="button">Calculate</button>
								</div>
							</div>
							<div id="id-subnet-error" style="color: #c0392b; display: none; margin-top: 8px;"></div>
							<div id="id-subnet-result" style="margin-top: 16px;"></div>
						</div>
					</div>

					<div class="row">
						<br />
						<br />
						<div class="panel-footer">
							<div class="fb-comments" data-href="https://nettools.live/subnet" data-width="" data-numposts="10"></div>
						</div>
					</div>

					<div class="hpanel" style="margin-top: 20px;">
						<div class="panel-heading">
							<h2 class="font-extra-bold no-margins text-success">About subnetting</h2>
						</div>
						<div class="panel-body">
							<p>A subnet is a logical slice of an IP network. The CIDR notation (<em>Classless Inter-Domain Routing</em>, e.g. <code>10.0.0.0/24</code>) expresses how many leading bits belong to the network — the remaining bits identify hosts inside that network.</p>
							<h3>What the calculator returns</h3>
							<ul>
								<li><strong>Network address</strong> — the first IP of the block; identifies the subnet, not assignable to a host.</li>
								<li><strong>Broadcast address</strong> — the last IP; reaches every host in the subnet, not assignable.</li>
								<li><strong>First and last usable host</strong> — the range you can actually assign to devices.</li>
								<li><strong>Netmask</strong> — decimal form of the prefix (e.g. <code>/24</code> → <code>255.255.255.0</code>).</li>
								<li><strong>Wildcard mask</strong> — inverse of the netmask; used by ACLs (Cisco) and OSPF.</li>
								<li><strong>Host count</strong> — total addresses minus 2 (network + broadcast).</li>
							</ul>
							<h3>FAQ</h3>
							<p><strong>Why does a /31 have only 2 hosts and no broadcast?</strong> RFC 3021 lets point-to-point links use both IPs as hosts; the network/broadcast convention is skipped for link efficiency.</p>
							<p><strong>Is there anything smaller than /32?</strong> No. A /32 is a single IP — useful for loopbacks and host routes.</p>
							<p><strong>How do I pick a prefix size?</strong> Count the hosts you need, add headroom (30–50%), and take the next power of two: 10 hosts → /28 (14 usable), 50 hosts → /26 (62 usable).</p>
						</div>
					</div>

					<script type="application/ld+json">
					{
					  "@context": "https://schema.org",
					  "@type": "SoftwareApplication",
					  "name": "Nettools Subnet Calculator",
					  "description": "Free IPv4 subnet / CIDR calculator.",
					  "applicationCategory": "UtilitiesApplication",
					  "operatingSystem": "Web",
					  "url": "https://nettools.live/subnet",
					  "offers": {"@type": "Offer", "price": "0", "priceCurrency": "USD"}
					}
					</script>
					<script type="application/ld+json">
					{
					  "@context": "https://schema.org",
					  "@type": "FAQPage",
					  "mainEntity": [
					    {"@type": "Question", "name": "Why does a /31 have only 2 hosts and no broadcast?", "acceptedAnswer": {"@type": "Answer", "text": "RFC 3021 allows point-to-point links to use both IPs as hosts, skipping the network/broadcast convention."}},
					    {"@type": "Question", "name": "Is there anything smaller than /32?", "acceptedAnswer": {"@type": "Answer", "text": "No. A /32 is a single IP, used for loopbacks and host routes."}},
					    {"@type": "Question", "name": "How do I pick a prefix size?", "acceptedAnswer": {"@type": "Answer", "text": "Count required hosts, add 30-50% headroom, and take the next power of two. 10 hosts fit in /28, 50 fit in /26."}}
					  ]
					}
					</script>

					<ui:include src="/pages/includes/related-tools.xhtml">
						<ui:param name="current" value="subnet" />
					</ui:include>

					<ui:include src="/pages/blog/blog-include-horizontal.xhtml">
						<ui:param name="tamanhodiv" value="6" />
					</ui:include>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
		<footer class="footer">
			<span class="pull-right"> Net Tools Live </span> Company 2021
		</footer>
	</div>

	<script>
	//<![CDATA[
	(function () {
		function ipToInt(ip) {
			var parts = ip.split('.').map(function (x) { return parseInt(x, 10); });
			if (parts.length !== 4) return null;
			for (var i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
				if (isNaN(parts[i]) || parts[i] < 0 || parts[i] > 255) return null;
			}
			return ((parts[0] * 256 + parts[1]) * 256 + parts[2]) * 256 + parts[3];
		}
		function intToIp(n) {
			n = n >>> 0;
			return [ (n >>> 24) & 0xff, (n >>> 16) & 0xff, (n >>> 8) & 0xff, n & 0xff ].join('.');
		}
		function ipToBinary(ip) {
			return ip.split('.').map(function (x) {
				return ('00000000' + parseInt(x, 10).toString(2)).slice(-8);
			}).join('.');
		}
		function classOf(firstOctet) {
			if (firstOctet < 128) return 'A';
			if (firstOctet < 192) return 'B';
			if (firstOctet < 224) return 'C';
			if (firstOctet < 240) return 'D (multicast)';
			return 'E (reserved)';
		}
		function isPrivate(ip) {
			var p = ip.split('.').map(function (x) { return parseInt(x, 10); });
			if (p[0] === 10) return true;
			if (p[0] === 172 && p[1] >= 16 && p[1] <= 31) return true;
			if (p[0] === 192 && p[1] === 168) return true;
			if (p[0] === 127) return 'Loopback';
			if (p[0] === 169 && p[1] === 254) return 'Link-local';
			return false;
		}

		function calculate() {
			var input = document.getElementById('id-input-cidr').value.trim();
			var err = document.getElementById('id-subnet-error');
			var result = document.getElementById('id-subnet-result');
			err.style.display = 'none';
			result.innerHTML = '';

			var m = input.match(/^(\d{1,3}\.\d{1,3}\.\d{1,3}\.\d{1,3})\/(\d{1,2})$/);
			if (!m) {
				err.textContent = 'Invalid CIDR. Expected format: 192.168.1.0/24';
				err.style.display = 'block';
				return;
			}
			var ip = m[1];
			var prefix = parseInt(m[2], 10);
			var ipInt = ipToInt(ip);
			if (ipInt === null || prefix < 0 || prefix > 32) {
				err.textContent = 'Invalid IP or prefix.';
				err.style.display = 'block';
				return;
			}

			var maskInt = prefix === 0 ? 0 : (0xffffffff << (32 - prefix)) >>> 0;
			var wildcardInt = (~maskInt) >>> 0;
			var networkInt = (ipInt & maskInt) >>> 0;
			var broadcastInt = (networkInt | wildcardInt) >>> 0;
			var total = Math.pow(2, 32 - prefix);
			var usable, firstHost, lastHost;
			if (prefix === 32) {
				usable = 1; firstHost = lastHost = intToIp(networkInt);
			} else if (prefix === 31) {
				usable = 2; firstHost = intToIp(networkInt); lastHost = intToIp(broadcastInt);
			} else {
				usable = total - 2; firstHost = intToIp(networkInt + 1); lastHost = intToIp(broadcastInt - 1);
			}

			var privateStatus = isPrivate(intToIp(networkInt));
			var privateLabel = privateStatus === true ? 'Private (RFC 1918)' :
				(typeof privateStatus === 'string' ? privateStatus : 'Public');

			var rows = [
				[ 'CIDR', input ],
				[ 'Network address', intToIp(networkInt) ],
				[ 'Broadcast address', intToIp(broadcastInt) ],
				[ 'First usable host', firstHost ],
				[ 'Last usable host', lastHost ],
				[ 'Total addresses', total.toLocaleString() ],
				[ 'Usable hosts', usable.toLocaleString() ],
				[ 'Netmask', intToIp(maskInt) ],
				[ 'Netmask (binary)', ipToBinary(intToIp(maskInt)) ],
				[ 'Wildcard mask', intToIp(wildcardInt) ],
				[ 'Network (binary)', ipToBinary(intToIp(networkInt)) ],
				[ 'Class', classOf((networkInt >>> 24) & 0xff) ],
				[ 'Scope', privateLabel ]
			];

			var html = '<table class="table table-striped" style="margin-bottom:0">';
			for (var i = 0; i < rows.length; i++) {
				html += '<tr><td style="width:40%"><strong>' + rows[i][0] + '</strong></td><td><code>' + rows[i][1] + '</code></td></tr>';
			}
			html += '</table>';
			result.innerHTML = html;
		}

		document.getElementById('id-button-subnet').addEventListener('click', calculate);
		document.getElementById('id-input-cidr').addEventListener('keypress', function (e) {
			if ((e.keyCode || e.which) === 13) { e.preventDefault(); calculate(); }
		});
		calculate();
	})();
	//]]>
	</script>
	</ui:define>
</ui:composition>
