<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	template="/WEB-INF/templates/default.xhtml">

	<ui:param name="title" value="Reverse DNS — PTR Lookup Online" />
	<ui:param name="description" value="Reverse DNS lookup online. Find the hostname behind any IPv4 or IPv6 address via PTR record. Free, instant, no install." />
	<ui:param name="keywords" value="reverse dns, ptr lookup, rdns, ip to hostname" />
	<ui:define name="corpo">
	<script src="#{request.contextPath}/resources/scripts/reconnecting-websocket.min.js"></script>

	<h:form id="idFormReverseDns" prependId="false">
		<div id="wrapper">
			<div class="content animate-panel">

				<div class="row">
					<div class="col-md-offset-1 col-lg-7">
						<div class="hpanel">
							<div class="panel-heading">
								<div class="row">
									<h1 class="font-extra-bold no-margins text-success text-center">Reverse DNS</h1>
								</div>
							</div>
							<div class="panel-body">
								<div class="row">
									<div class="form-group col-lg-8">
										<label>IP address (IPv4 or IPv6)</label>
										<br />
										<h:inputText id="id-input-ip" value="#{reverseDnsController.to.ip}" styleClass="form-control" />
									</div>
									<div class="form-group col-lg-3">
										<div style="margin-top: 10px;">
											<h:commandButton action="#{reverseDnsController.reversedns}" value="Go!" id="id-button-reversedns" styleClass="btn btn-success" style="margin-right: 6px;">
												<f:ajax event="click" onevent="buttonClick()" execute="idFormReverseDns" render="idPanelHistory" />
											</h:commandButton>
											<h:commandButton action="#{reverseDnsController.clear}" value="Clear" id="id-button-reversedns-clear" styleClass="btn btn-default">
												<f:ajax execute="@this" render="idFormReverseDns idPanelHistory" />
											</h:commandButton>
										</div>
									</div>
								</div>
							</div>
							<div id="id-panel-footer" class="panel-footer" style="background: #000;">
								<code id="id-panel-result" style="background-color: #000;color: #62cb31;min-height: 200px;">Net Tools Live - Terminal...</code>
							</div>
						</div>
						<div class="row">
							<br />
							<br />
							<br />
							<div class="panel-footer">
								<div class="fb-comments" data-href="https://nettools.live/reversedns" data-width="" data-numposts="10"></div>
							</div>
						</div>

						<div class="hpanel" style="margin-top: 20px;">
							<div class="panel-heading">
								<h2 class="font-extra-bold no-margins text-success">About reverse DNS</h2>
							</div>
							<div class="panel-body">
								<p>A reverse DNS (rDNS) lookup maps an IP address back to the hostname its operator has published. Unlike a normal forward lookup (hostname → IP), rDNS relies on a PTR record on the <em>in-addr.arpa</em> (IPv4) or <em>ip6.arpa</em> (IPv6) tree, which the network owning the IP block is responsible for publishing.</p>
								<p>This tool queries the authoritative resolvers directly and streams the answer back.</p>
								<h3>Why it matters</h3>
								<ul>
									<li><strong>Email deliverability</strong> — mail servers without a matching PTR are frequently marked as spam.</li>
									<li><strong>Log analysis</strong> — translating raw IPs into readable hostnames makes traffic logs human-friendly.</li>
									<li><strong>Security research</strong> — PTR records often leak who owns an IP (e.g. <em>ec2-54-…compute.amazonaws.com</em>).</li>
								</ul>
								<h3>FAQ</h3>
								<p><strong>Why is there no PTR for my IP?</strong> rDNS zones are delegated by the network owner. Home users rarely have PTR control; ask your ISP or hosting provider.</p>
								<p><strong>Does rDNS have to match forward DNS?</strong> No, but matching (FCrDNS — Forward-Confirmed Reverse DNS) is required by many mail receivers and improves deliverability.</p>
								<p><strong>Can I have more than one PTR?</strong> Technically yes, but most resolvers return only the first. Some mail systems will reject IPs with multiple PTRs.</p>
							</div>
						</div>

						<script type="application/ld+json">
						{
						  "@context": "https://schema.org",
						  "@type": "SoftwareApplication",
						  "name": "Nettools Reverse DNS",
						  "description": "Free PTR lookup for IPv4 and IPv6.",
						  "applicationCategory": "NetworkApplication",
						  "operatingSystem": "Web",
						  "url": "https://nettools.live/reversedns",
						  "offers": {"@type": "Offer", "price": "0", "priceCurrency": "USD"}
						}
						</script>
						<script type="application/ld+json">
						{
						  "@context": "https://schema.org",
						  "@type": "FAQPage",
						  "mainEntity": [
						    {"@type": "Question", "name": "Why is there no PTR for my IP?", "acceptedAnswer": {"@type": "Answer", "text": "Reverse DNS zones are delegated by the network owner. Home users rarely control PTR; contact your ISP or hosting provider."}},
						    {"@type": "Question", "name": "Does rDNS have to match forward DNS?", "acceptedAnswer": {"@type": "Answer", "text": "No, but matching (FCrDNS) is required by many mail receivers and improves deliverability."}},
						    {"@type": "Question", "name": "Can I have more than one PTR?", "acceptedAnswer": {"@type": "Answer", "text": "Technically yes, but most resolvers return only the first and many mail systems reject multi-PTR IPs."}}
						  ]
						}
						</script>

						<ui:include src="/pages/includes/breadcrumbs.xhtml">
							<ui:param name="toolName" value="Reverse DNS" />
							<ui:param name="toolSlug" value="reversedns" />
						</ui:include>

						<ui:include src="/pages/includes/related-tools.xhtml">
							<ui:param name="current" value="reversedns" />
						</ui:include>

						<ui:include src="/pages/blog/blog-include-horizontal.xhtml">
							<ui:param name="tamanhodiv" value="6" />
						</ui:include>
					</div>
					<div class="col-lg-3">
						<h:panelGroup id="idPanelHistory">
							<ui:fragment rendered="#{customIdentity.reverseDns.size() gt 0}">
								<h4 class="font-extra-bold no-margins text-success text-center">History</h4>
							<div class="text-center" style="margin: -4px 0 8px;"><h:commandLink action="#{reverseDnsController.clearHistory}" style="font-size: 11px; color: #999;"><i class="fa fa-trash"></i> Clear history<f:ajax render="idPanelHistory"/></h:commandLink></div>
								<br />
								<h:dataTable id="idTableReverseDns" value="#{customIdentity.reverseDns}" var="rd" styleClass="table">
									<h:column>
										<f:facet name="header">play</f:facet>
										<a onclick="historyClick('#{rd.ip}')">
											<i class="pe-7s-upload pe-rotate-90"></i>
										</a>
									</h:column>
									<h:column>
										<f:facet name="header">ip</f:facet>
										#{rd.ip}
									</h:column>
									<h:column>
										<f:facet name="header">when</f:facet>
										#{rd.dateTimeFormat}
									</h:column>
								</h:dataTable>
							</ui:fragment>
						</h:panelGroup>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
			<footer class="footer">
				<span class="pull-right"> Net Tools Live </span> Company 2021
			</footer>
		</div>
	</h:form>

	<script>
	//<![CDATA[
	document.getElementById('id-panel-footer').style.display = 'none';
	var wsocketHost = null;
	function connect() {
		var wsProto = window.location.protocol === 'https:' ? 'wss:' : 'ws:';
		wsocketHost = new ReconnectingWebSocket(wsProto + '//' + window.location.host + '/ReverseDnsServer', null, {debug: false, reconnectInterval: 3000});
		wsocketHost.onmessage = onMessage;
		wsocketHost.onopen = onOpen;
	}
	function onMessage(evt) {
		var obj = JSON.parse(evt.data);
		if (obj.resultado !== 'FIM') {
			document.getElementById('id-panel-footer').style.display = 'block';
			var line = document.createElement('div');
			line.textContent = obj.resultado;
			document.getElementById('id-panel-result').appendChild(line);
		} else {
			document.getElementById('id-button-reversedns').disabled = false;
			document.getElementById('id-button-reversedns').value = 'Go!';
		}
	}
	function onOpen(evt) {}
	var buttonClick = function () {
		if (wsocketHost.readyState === WebSocket.CLOSED) { connect(); }
		var ip = document.getElementById('id-input-ip').value;
		if (ip !== '') {
			document.getElementById('id-button-reversedns').disabled = true;
			document.getElementById('id-button-reversedns').value = '...';
			document.getElementById('id-panel-result').innerHTML = '';
			wsocketHost.send(JSON.stringify({ ip: ip }));
		} else {
			alert('Fill an IP address.');
		}
	};
	var historyClick = function (ip) {
		document.getElementById('id-input-ip').value = ip;
		buttonClick();
	};
	connect();
	//]]>
	</script>
	</ui:define>
</ui:composition>
