<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	template="/WEB-INF/templates/default.xhtml">

	<ui:param name="title" value="Contact" />
	<ui:param name="description" value="Get in touch with Nettools Live: questions, bug reports, partnership ideas, privacy requests. We reply to every legitimate message." />
	<ui:define name="corpo">
	<div id="wrapper">
		<div class="content animate-panel">
			<div class="row">
				<div class="col-md-offset-1 col-lg-7">
					<div class="hpanel">
						<div class="panel-heading">
							<h1 class="font-extra-bold no-margins text-success">Contact</h1>
						</div>
						<div class="panel-body" style="line-height: 1.7; font-size: 15px;">

							<p>Have a question, spotted a bug, or want to suggest a new tool? We'd love to hear from you.</p>

							<h2 class="text-success" style="margin-top: 24px;">Email</h2>
							<p>
								<a href="mailto:contact@nettools.live"><strong>contact@nettools.live</strong></a>
							</p>
							<p class="text-muted" style="font-size: 14px;">Typical response time: 2–3 business days.</p>

							<h2 class="text-success" style="margin-top: 24px;">What to include</h2>
							<ul>
								<li><strong>Bug reports</strong> — which tool, what you typed, what you expected, what happened. Screenshots help a lot.</li>
								<li><strong>Feature requests</strong> — the problem you're trying to solve, not just the tool name. We often have better ways to solve it.</li>
								<li><strong>Privacy / data requests</strong> — see our <a href="/privacy">Privacy Policy</a> for what we can and cannot help with. Include the approximate date and IP if you want to correlate with our access logs.</li>
								<li><strong>Abuse reports</strong> — if you believe someone is misusing Nettools Live against your infrastructure, send the destination host, approximate timestamps (UTC) and any logs you have. See also our <a href="/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</li>
								<li><strong>Partnerships &amp; advertising</strong> — quick description of who you are and what you have in mind.</li>
							</ul>

							<h2 class="text-success" style="margin-top: 24px;">Before you email</h2>
							<p>You may find the answer faster on our <a href="/blog">blog</a> or by trying the specific tool's page — most questions we receive are already covered in the FAQ section at the bottom of each tool page.</p>

						</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
	</ui:define>
</ui:composition>
