<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	template="/WEB-INF/templates/default.xhtml">

	<ui:param name="title" value="Terms of Service" />
	<ui:param name="description" value="Terms of service for Nettools Live: acceptable use, rate limits, disclaimer of warranties, and limitation of liability for our free online network tools." />
	<ui:define name="corpo">
	<div id="wrapper">
		<div class="content animate-panel">
			<div class="row">
				<div class="col-md-offset-1 col-lg-9">
					<div class="hpanel">
						<div class="panel-heading">
							<h1 class="font-extra-bold no-margins text-success">Terms of Service</h1>
							<small class="text-muted">Last updated: 2026-04-22</small>
						</div>
						<div class="panel-body" style="line-height: 1.7; font-size: 15px;">

							<p>By using Nettools Live ("the Service"), you agree to the terms below. If you do not agree, please do not use the Service.</p>

							<h2 class="text-success" style="margin-top: 24px;">1. What the Service is</h2>
							<p>Nettools Live provides free, browser-based network diagnostic tools (ping, traceroute, whois, nmap, DNS lookups, SSL inspection, and similar utilities). The Service is provided for legitimate informational and troubleshooting purposes.</p>

							<h2 class="text-success" style="margin-top: 24px;">2. Acceptable use</h2>
							<p>You agree that you will NOT use the Service to:</p>
							<ul>
								<li>Target systems you do not own or do not have written authorization to test. Running port scans, penetration tests, or SNMP queries against third-party systems may violate laws in your jurisdiction (e.g. the US Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, UK Computer Misuse Act, Brazilian Lei Carolina Dieckmann).</li>
								<li>Attack, flood, or attempt to disrupt any system, including this Service.</li>
								<li>Circumvent rate limits, automate the Service via scripts or bots, or resell access to the Service.</li>
								<li>Inject malicious payloads, commands or code through any input field.</li>
								<li>Use the Service for unlawful, harassing, fraudulent or discriminatory activity.</li>
							</ul>
							<p>Responsibility for how you use the output of these tools is yours and yours alone.</p>

							<h2 class="text-success" style="margin-top: 24px;">3. Rate limits</h2>
							<p>To keep the Service free and fast for everyone, we apply server-side rate limits and short cooldowns between requests. Exceeding them or scripting the Service may result in temporary blocks.</p>

							<h2 class="text-success" style="margin-top: 24px;">4. Disclaimer of warranties</h2>
							<p>The Service is provided "as is" and "as available", without warranty of any kind, either express or implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, accuracy, or non-infringement. Results are best-effort and may contain errors; do not use them as the sole basis for critical decisions.</p>

							<h2 class="text-success" style="margin-top: 24px;">5. Limitation of liability</h2>
							<p>To the maximum extent permitted by law, Nettools Live and its operator shall not be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, or special damages arising out of or in connection with your use of the Service, including but not limited to loss of data, revenue, or business interruption.</p>

							<h2 class="text-success" style="margin-top: 24px;">6. Third-party services and links</h2>
							<p>The Service uses third-party APIs (e.g. ipify.org) and links to third-party sites. We do not control and are not responsible for the content or privacy practices of those third parties.</p>

							<h2 class="text-success" style="margin-top: 24px;">7. Intellectual property</h2>
							<p>All content, code, and design on nettools.live is owned by its operator unless otherwise noted. The output your queries produce is yours to use freely.</p>

							<h2 class="text-success" style="margin-top: 24px;">8. Changes and termination</h2>
							<p>We may modify or discontinue the Service at any time without notice. These terms may be updated — the "Last updated" date above reflects the most recent change. Continued use after changes constitutes acceptance.</p>

							<h2 class="text-success" style="margin-top: 24px;">9. Governing law</h2>
							<p>These terms are governed by the laws of Brazil, without regard to conflict-of-law principles.</p>

							<h2 class="text-success" style="margin-top: 24px;">10. Contact</h2>
							<p>Questions about these terms: see the <a href="/contact">contact page</a>.</p>

						</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
	</ui:define>
</ui:composition>
