<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	template="/WEB-INF/templates/default.xhtml">

	<ui:param name="title" value="Is This Site Down — Check Website Availability" />
	<ui:param name="description" value="Free Is It Down? checker. Tell instantly if a website is online or down for everyone. Checks DNS, TCP 80/443 and HTTP response in one go." />
	<ui:param name="keywords" value="is it down, down for everyone, website down, site status, uptime check" />
	<ui:define name="corpo">
	<script src="#{request.contextPath}/resources/scripts/reconnecting-websocket.min.js"></script>

	<h:form id="idFormIsItDown" prependId="false">
		<div id="wrapper">
			<div class="content animate-panel">
				<div class="row">
					<div class="col-md-offset-1 col-lg-7">
						<div class="hpanel">
							<div class="panel-heading">
								<h1 class="font-extra-bold no-margins text-success text-center">Is It Down?</h1>
							</div>
							<div class="panel-body">
								<div class="row">
									<div class="form-group col-lg-8">
										<label>Website or domain</label>
										<br />
										<h:inputText id="id-input-host" value="#{isItDownController.to.host}" styleClass="form-control" />
									</div>
									<div class="form-group col-lg-3">
										<div style="margin-top: 10px;">
											<h:commandButton action="#{isItDownController.isitdown}" value="Check" id="id-button-isitdown" styleClass="btn btn-success" style="margin-right: 6px;">
												<f:ajax event="click" onevent="buttonClick()" execute="idFormIsItDown" render="idPanelHistory" />
											</h:commandButton>
											<h:commandButton action="#{isItDownController.clear}" value="Clear" id="id-button-isitdown-clear" styleClass="btn btn-default">
												<f:ajax execute="@this" render="idFormIsItDown idPanelHistory" />
											</h:commandButton>
										</div>
									</div>
								</div>
							</div>
							<div id="id-panel-footer" class="panel-footer" style="background:#000;">
								<code id="id-panel-result" style="background:#000;color:#62cb31;min-height:200px;white-space:pre;">Net Tools Live - Terminal...</code>
							</div>
						</div>

						<div class="row">
							<br /><br />
							<div class="panel-footer">
								<div class="fb-comments" data-href="https://nettools.live/isitdown" data-width="" data-numposts="10"></div>
							</div>
						</div>

						<div class="hpanel" style="margin-top: 20px;">
							<div class="panel-heading">
								<h2 class="font-extra-bold no-margins text-success">About "Is It Down?"</h2>
							</div>
							<div class="panel-body">
								<p>When a site seems broken, the first question is always: is it down for everyone, or just me? This tool checks a website from our external infrastructure and tells you in seconds whether the issue is on the server side, somewhere on the network, or local to your connection.</p>
								<p>We run four checks in sequence: DNS resolution → TCP port 443 → TCP port 80 → HTTP GET. Each step is reported individually so you can see exactly where the failure occurs.</p>
								<h3>Possible verdicts</h3>
								<ul>
									<li><strong>UP</strong> — server reachable and responding with a 2xx/3xx code.</li>
									<li><strong>UP with errors</strong> — DNS and TCP fine, but the application itself returns 4xx or 5xx.</li>
									<li><strong>DOWN</strong> — DNS fails, or no TCP port answers, or HTTP times out.</li>
								</ul>
								<h3>FAQ</h3>
								<p><strong>The site works for me but you say "DOWN" — why?</strong> Some sites block our datacenter IP range or apply aggressive bot protection. Try <a href="#{request.contextPath}/ping">ping</a> and <a href="#{request.contextPath}/portcheck">port check</a> to confirm.</p>
								<p><strong>Why does it say "UP with errors"?</strong> The infrastructure is healthy but the app returned a 500 or 503. That's a backend bug, not a network issue.</p>
								<p><strong>What if only DNS fails?</strong> The domain is expired, misconfigured or the DNS delegation broke. Check <a href="#{request.contextPath}/whois">whois</a> for expiration.</p>
							</div>
						</div>

						<script type="application/ld+json">
						{
						  "@context": "https://schema.org",
						  "@type": "SoftwareApplication",
						  "name": "Nettools Is It Down",
						  "description": "Free website availability checker — DNS + TCP + HTTP.",
						  "applicationCategory": "NetworkApplication",
						  "operatingSystem": "Web",
						  "url": "https://nettools.live/isitdown",
						  "offers": {"@type": "Offer", "price": "0", "priceCurrency": "USD"}
						}
						</script>
						<script type="application/ld+json">
						{
						  "@context": "https://schema.org",
						  "@type": "FAQPage",
						  "mainEntity": [
						    {"@type": "Question", "name": "The site works for me but you say DOWN — why?", "acceptedAnswer": {"@type": "Answer", "text": "Some sites block our datacenter IP range or apply bot protection. Try ping and port check to confirm reachability."}},
						    {"@type": "Question", "name": "Why does it say UP with errors?", "acceptedAnswer": {"@type": "Answer", "text": "Infrastructure is healthy but the app returned a 500 or 503. That's a backend bug, not a network issue."}},
						    {"@type": "Question", "name": "What if only DNS fails?", "acceptedAnswer": {"@type": "Answer", "text": "The domain is expired, misconfigured or DNS delegation broke. Check whois for expiration."}}
						  ]
						}
						</script>

						<ui:include src="/pages/includes/breadcrumbs.xhtml">
							<ui:param name="toolName" value="Is It Down" />
							<ui:param name="toolSlug" value="isitdown" />
						</ui:include>

						<ui:include src="/pages/includes/related-tools.xhtml">
							<ui:param name="current" value="isitdown" />
						</ui:include>

						<ui:include src="/pages/blog/blog-include-horizontal.xhtml">
							<ui:param name="tamanhodiv" value="6" />
						</ui:include>
					</div>
					<div class="col-lg-3">
						<h:panelGroup id="idPanelHistory">
							<ui:fragment rendered="#{customIdentity.isitdowns.size() gt 0}">
								<h4 class="font-extra-bold no-margins text-success text-center">History</h4>
							<div class="text-center" style="margin: -4px 0 8px;"><h:commandLink action="#{isItDownController.clearHistory}" style="font-size: 11px; color: #999;"><i class="fa fa-trash"></i> Clear history<f:ajax render="idPanelHistory"/></h:commandLink></div>
								<br />
								<h:dataTable value="#{customIdentity.isitdowns}" var="i" styleClass="table">
									<h:column>
										<f:facet name="header">play</f:facet>
										<a onclick="historyClick('#{i.host}')"><i class="pe-7s-upload pe-rotate-90"></i></a>
									</h:column>
									<h:column>
										<f:facet name="header">host</f:facet>
										#{i.host}
									</h:column>
									<h:column>
										<f:facet name="header">when</f:facet>
										#{i.dateTimeFormat}
									</h:column>
								</h:dataTable>
							</ui:fragment>
						</h:panelGroup>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
			<footer class="footer">
				<span class="pull-right"> Net Tools Live </span> Company 2021
			</footer>
		</div>
	</h:form>

	<script>
	//<![CDATA[
	document.getElementById('id-panel-footer').style.display = 'none';
	var wsocketHost = null;
	function connect() {
		var wsProto = window.location.protocol === 'https:' ? 'wss:' : 'ws:';
		wsocketHost = new ReconnectingWebSocket(wsProto + '//' + window.location.host + '/IsItDownServer', null, {debug: false, reconnectInterval: 3000});
		wsocketHost.onmessage = onMessage;
	}
	function onMessage(evt) {
		var obj = JSON.parse(evt.data);
		if (obj.resultado !== 'FIM') {
			document.getElementById('id-panel-footer').style.display = 'block';
			var line = document.createElement('div');
			line.textContent = obj.resultado;
			document.getElementById('id-panel-result').appendChild(line);
		} else {
			document.getElementById('id-button-isitdown').disabled = false;
			document.getElementById('id-button-isitdown').value = 'Check';
		}
	}
	var buttonClick = function () {
		if (wsocketHost.readyState === WebSocket.CLOSED) { connect(); }
		var h = document.getElementById('id-input-host').value;
		if (h !== '') {
			document.getElementById('id-button-isitdown').disabled = true;
			document.getElementById('id-button-isitdown').value = '...';
			document.getElementById('id-panel-result').innerHTML = '';
			wsocketHost.send(JSON.stringify({ host: h }));
		} else {
			alert('Fill a host or URL.');
		}
	};
	var historyClick = function (h) {
		document.getElementById('id-input-host').value = h;
		buttonClick();
	};
	connect();
	//]]>
	</script>
	</ui:define>
</ui:composition>
