<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	template="/WEB-INF/templates/default.xhtml">

	<ui:param name="title" value="Port Check — Test if a TCP Port is Open" />
	<ui:param name="description" value="Free online port checker. Test from the public internet whether a TCP port is open, closed or filtered on any host. Instant result, no install." />
	<ui:param name="keywords" value="port check, open port, port test, tcp port, firewall test" />
	<ui:define name="corpo">
	<script src="#{request.contextPath}/resources/scripts/reconnecting-websocket.min.js"></script>

	<h:form id="idFormPortCheck" prependId="false">
		<div id="wrapper">
			<div class="content animate-panel">

				<div class="row">
					<div class="col-md-offset-1 col-lg-7">
						<div class="hpanel">
							<div class="panel-heading">
								<div class="row">
									<h1 class="font-extra-bold no-margins text-success text-center">Port Check</h1>
								</div>
							</div>
							<div class="panel-body">
								<div class="row">
									<div class="form-group col-lg-5">
										<label>Host</label>
										<br />
										<h:inputText id="id-input-host" value="#{portCheckController.to.host}" styleClass="form-control" />
									</div>
									<div class="form-group col-lg-3">
										<label>Port</label>
										<br />
										<h:inputText id="id-input-port" value="#{portCheckController.to.porta}" styleClass="form-control" onkeypress="mascara(this,soNumeros);" maxlength="5">
											<f:passThroughAttribute name="type" value="tel" />
										</h:inputText>
									</div>
									<div class="form-group col-lg-3">
										<div style="margin-top: 10px;">
											<h:commandButton action="#{portCheckController.portcheck}" value="Go!" id="id-button-portcheck" styleClass="btn btn-success" style="margin-right: 6px;">
												<f:ajax event="click" onevent="buttonClick()" execute="idFormPortCheck" render="idPanelHistory" />
											</h:commandButton>
											<h:commandButton action="#{portCheckController.clear}" value="Clear" id="id-button-portcheck-clear" styleClass="btn btn-default">
												<f:ajax execute="@this" render="idFormPortCheck idPanelHistory" />
											</h:commandButton>
										</div>
									</div>
								</div>
							</div>
							<div id="id-panel-footer" class="panel-footer" style="background: #000;">
								<code id="id-panel-result" style="background-color: #000;color: #62cb31;min-height: 200px;">Net Tools Live - Terminal...</code>
							</div>
						</div>
						<div class="row">
							<br />
							<br />
							<br />
							<div class="panel-footer">
								<div class="fb-comments" data-href="https://nettools.live/portcheck" data-width="" data-numposts="10"></div>
							</div>
						</div>

						<div class="hpanel" style="margin-top: 20px;">
							<div class="panel-heading">
								<h2 class="font-extra-bold no-margins text-success">About this port checker</h2>
							</div>
							<div class="panel-body">
								<p>Port Check answers a simple question: is a specific TCP port accepting connections on a given host from the public internet? It opens a single TCP socket from our server to <em>host:port</em> and reports the outcome within three seconds.</p>
								<h3>How to read the result</h3>
								<ul>
									<li><strong>OPEN</strong> — the 3-way handshake completed. Something is listening there and accepting connections.</li>
									<li><strong>CLOSED</strong> — the host replied but rejected the connection (RST). The host is up, nothing is listening on that port.</li>
									<li><strong>FILTERED</strong> — no reply at all within the timeout. A firewall is silently dropping packets.</li>
								</ul>
								<h3>FAQ</h3>
								<p><strong>Why is my port filtered but works locally?</strong> Your ISP, your home router or a cloud security group is blocking inbound connections. Open the port in the router / security group configuration.</p>
								<p><strong>Does this work for UDP?</strong> No. This tool tests TCP only. UDP has no handshake, so "open" for UDP requires application-level probing.</p>
								<p><strong>Is this the same as nmap?</strong> Nmap scans a list of ports at once and does service fingerprinting. Port Check targets a single port and is 10× faster for the common "is it open?" question.</p>
							</div>
						</div>

						<script type="application/ld+json">
						{
						  "@context": "https://schema.org",
						  "@type": "SoftwareApplication",
						  "name": "Nettools Port Check",
						  "description": "Free online TCP port reachability tester.",
						  "applicationCategory": "NetworkApplication",
						  "operatingSystem": "Web",
						  "url": "https://nettools.live/portcheck",
						  "offers": {"@type": "Offer", "price": "0", "priceCurrency": "USD"}
						}
						</script>
						<script type="application/ld+json">
						{
						  "@context": "https://schema.org",
						  "@type": "FAQPage",
						  "mainEntity": [
						    {"@type": "Question", "name": "Why is my port filtered but works locally?", "acceptedAnswer": {"@type": "Answer", "text": "Your ISP, home router or cloud security group is blocking inbound connections. Open the port in the router or security group configuration."}},
						    {"@type": "Question", "name": "Does this work for UDP?", "acceptedAnswer": {"@type": "Answer", "text": "No. This tool tests TCP only. UDP has no handshake and requires application-level probing."}},
						    {"@type": "Question", "name": "Is this the same as nmap?", "acceptedAnswer": {"@type": "Answer", "text": "Nmap scans many ports and fingerprints services. Port Check targets a single port and answers the open/closed question faster."}}
						  ]
						}
						</script>

						<ui:include src="/pages/includes/breadcrumbs.xhtml">
							<ui:param name="toolName" value="Port Check" />
							<ui:param name="toolSlug" value="portcheck" />
						</ui:include>

						<ui:include src="/pages/includes/related-tools.xhtml">
							<ui:param name="current" value="portcheck" />
						</ui:include>

						<ui:include src="/pages/blog/blog-include-horizontal.xhtml">
							<ui:param name="tamanhodiv" value="6" />
						</ui:include>
					</div>
					<div class="col-lg-3">
						<h:panelGroup id="idPanelHistory">
							<ui:fragment rendered="#{customIdentity.portchecks.size() gt 0}">
								<h4 class="font-extra-bold no-margins text-success text-center">History</h4>
							<div class="text-center" style="margin: -4px 0 8px;"><h:commandLink action="#{portCheckController.clearHistory}" style="font-size: 11px; color: #999;"><i class="fa fa-trash"></i> Clear history<f:ajax render="idPanelHistory"/></h:commandLink></div>
								<br />
								<h:dataTable id="idTablePortCheck" value="#{customIdentity.portchecks}" var="pc" styleClass="table">
									<h:column>
										<f:facet name="header">play</f:facet>
										<a onclick="historyClick('#{pc.host}','#{pc.porta}')">
											<i class="pe-7s-upload pe-rotate-90"></i>
										</a>
									</h:column>
									<h:column>
										<f:facet name="header">host</f:facet>
										#{pc.host}:#{pc.porta}
									</h:column>
									<h:column>
										<f:facet name="header">when</f:facet>
										#{pc.dateTimeFormat}
									</h:column>
								</h:dataTable>
							</ui:fragment>
						</h:panelGroup>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
			<footer class="footer">
				<span class="pull-right"> Net Tools Live </span> Company 2021
			</footer>
		</div>
	</h:form>

	<script>
	//<![CDATA[
	document.getElementById('id-panel-footer').style.display = 'none';
	var wsocketHost = null;
	function connect() {
		var wsProto = window.location.protocol === 'https:' ? 'wss:' : 'ws:';
		wsocketHost = new ReconnectingWebSocket(wsProto + '//' + window.location.host + '/PortCheckServer', null, {debug: false, reconnectInterval: 3000});
		wsocketHost.onmessage = onMessage;
		wsocketHost.onopen = onOpen;
	}
	function onMessage(evt) {
		var obj = JSON.parse(evt.data);
		if (obj.resultado !== 'FIM') {
			document.getElementById('id-panel-footer').style.display = 'block';
			var line = document.createElement('div');
			line.textContent = obj.resultado;
			document.getElementById('id-panel-result').appendChild(line);
		} else {
			document.getElementById('id-button-portcheck').disabled = false;
			document.getElementById('id-button-portcheck').value = 'Go!';
		}
	}
	function onOpen(evt) {}
	var buttonClick = function () {
		if (wsocketHost.readyState === WebSocket.CLOSED) { connect(); }
		var host = document.getElementById('id-input-host').value;
		var port = document.getElementById('id-input-port').value;
		if (host !== '' && port !== '') {
			document.getElementById('id-button-portcheck').disabled = true;
			document.getElementById('id-button-portcheck').value = '...';
			document.getElementById('id-panel-result').innerHTML = '';
			wsocketHost.send(JSON.stringify({ host: host, porta: port }));
		} else {
			alert('Fill host and port.');
		}
	};
	var historyClick = function (h, p) {
		document.getElementById('id-input-host').value = h;
		document.getElementById('id-input-port').value = p;
		buttonClick();
	};
	connect();
	//]]>
	</script>
	</ui:define>
</ui:composition>
